---
title: "Poan"
subTitle: "‘Communicating without words’: the sartorial rhetoric of Georg Weissacher"
readingTime: 5min
heroImage: https://meta.hevnly.com/images/on-25-2-2016/poan-poan-hero.jpg
date: 2016-2-25
slug: poan
tags: 
category: products
editionName: genesis
editionNumber: 6
---

Georg Weissacher is a London-based menswear designer, whose first collection recently debuted to great acclaim at Paris fashion week. Drawing inspiration from a wide range of sources he marries a conceptual philosophy with innovative craftsmanship.

His bold label name POAN, People of all Nations, speaks to a humane side of fashion and the nature of contemporary life in a globalised world. “Fashion,” he feels, “is about self-reflection, communication and what you want to give to the people around you. It’s a means of communication without words and at a distance”.

>Fashion is about self-reflection, communication and what you want to give to the people around you.

So where did his introduction to fashion begin? After concluding his formal training in his native Austria, Weissacher had the privilege of being mentored by Vivienne Westwood. After nine years of helping produce collections for her label, he was more than ready to create one of his own.

Weissacher’s creative process is fundamentally grounded in a contemporary art aesthetic. “I always start a collection through a visit to a museum,” -  an approach that was ingrained in him during his role as Vice Head of Menswear for Westwood’s prestigious fashion house.

This artistic foundation is evident from the evocative film which introduced Weissacher’s collection at his Paris debut. A sweeping shot over London’s night cityscape sets the scene for the striking narrative-driven piece, where imposing classical architecture and lavish colourful interiors are contrasted with dinghy urban streets. The bold garments on show serve to propel the complex human story to great heights.

Weissacher’s exquisite items are all the more impressive given the painstaking craftsmanship behind their creation. He has pioneered a technique in which the same yarn is used both to knit and to weave, creating pieces that are both coordinated and comfortable.

“It may sound trivial,” he says, “but from a making perspective it’s not. I think it’s fair to say that I’m the only person who’s doing it this way.”

Another distinctive feature of the collection is the accessories. From shoes to baseball caps, Wessacher’s use of horsehair makes them light and durable whilst maintaining a distinctive appearance, “Horse hair is an extremely expensive and luxurious material. You can make the most amazing things out of it”.

But creating his first collection hasn’t been without its setbacks; a fifth of the collection was lost at the hands of an unnamed courier company just one day before the shooting of his film began.

Regardless Weissacher overcame this and other obstacles, with an impressive debut in Paris. His unusual materials and knitted items drew particular interest from industry representatives.

Having established his own creative language for the label, he is already looking ahead to his next collection. It will follow the same narrative, “I want to design and communicate another collection with a strong identity,” he says. “I want to tell a story.”
